
* A general introduction to the work you are doing.

Several people are working currently on an installer for KDE on windows applications for 
end user and developers. The aim is to make installing KDE on windows as simple as it could be. 

* What you hope to achieve through the work, the functionality and the problems it solves/helps. 

KDE applications has several runtime library and tool dependencies. The kde 
libraries kdelibs for example has currently 17 external dependencies which are 
zlib, pnglib, jpeglib, tiff, jasper, pcre carbon lib, acl, bzip2, libxml2, 
libxslt, openexr, openssl, gettext, perl, dbus and qt.

Linux distributions has mostly of this libraries on there installation cd's, 
which makes it easy to install them if a specific kde package depends on it. 
This dependency tracking is provided by the install tool like rpm or dpkg and 
the libraries are using a common package format for example rpm or deb.

On windows the situation is complete different. Libraries required by KDE 
packages are not on any windows distribution cd, they are located anywhere in 
the internet and they does not have a common format. Packages could be a have 
zip format or tar.bz2 format or are executables containing a specific installers 
or are msi (= Microsoft(R) Software Installation) packages. 

Additional there is no common path layout for libary and tool packages. While many 
open source libraries and tools uses the well known unix format using bin/include/lib/doc/...
there are packages outside which follows other schemes. 

For building single installer packages there are several installer build systems on 
windows available like the open source tools NSIS (http://nsis.sourceforge.net) 
and Inno Setup (http://www.jrsoftware.org/isinfo.php), and commercial tools like 
InstallShield and the Windows Installer. Some installers are able to download 
additional packages from the internet like the windows installer for the qt 
opensource edition.

All mentioned installers have one important disadvantage: they build an executable, 
which could not be customized very well on runtime. 

Changed url's or path layout of related packages requires an installer recompile and 
work to make a new release, announcements. All users have to download the new version 
before they can use the new feature. This is all superfluous work. 

There are other installer types available like the cygwin installer (http://www.cygwin.com) 
which are able to load there configuration online from the internet. The kde installer falls 
into this category because on every start it reads it basic configuration from 
a well known web site. These configuration could be quickly changed in case downloads are broken 
or additional sites having kde on windows applications are available. 

* Any technical comments on this specifically, or more generally your other win32 KDE work. 

The KDE installer is build as a static Qt4 application and is designed like an installation wizard. 

See screenshots. 

* And anything else you want to talk about is fine also :D 

The user experience for KDE on windows in this area should be that KDE applications are simple 
to install. 

> Several paragraphs are ideal and (new, unseen! ;D) screenshots are also great ;) 

Many Thanks, 
Danny


